README.md, before:

# Vision3D: State-of-the-Art 3D Reconstruction from Images

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-1.10+-ee4c2c.svg)](https://pytorch.org/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

## 🚀 Overview

Vision3D is an educational and production-ready implementation of cutting-edge 3D reconstruction techniques. This project demonstrates how to build a complete 3D reconstruction pipeline from scratch, combining modern deep learning with classical computer vision.

### What is 3D Reconstruction?

3D reconstruction is the process of capturing the shape and appearance of real objects from multiple 2D photographs. Imagine taking several photos of a building from different angles and then using those photos to create a 3D model - that's what this code does automatically!

[TODO: image displaying the transformation from multiple 2D photos to a 3D model]

### Why This Repository?

This repository serves three purposes:
1. **Educational**: Learn the theory and practice of 3D reconstruction (see [THEORY.md](THEORY.md))
2. **Practical**: Production-ready code for real-world applications
3. **Research**: Demonstrates state-of-the-art methods from top computer vision conferences

**Key Features:**
- 🔥 **Hybrid Matching**: Intelligently combines LoFTR (dense) and SuperGlue (sparse) matching
- 🎯 **Smart Image Pairing**: Efficiently selects which images to match using AI
- 🔧 **Production Ready**: Professional code structure with error handling and logging
- 📊 **Performance Optimized**: GPU acceleration, multi-scale processing, and smart caching
- 🛠️ **Easy to Understand**: Extensive documentation and comments for learning

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Theory and Fundamentals](THEORY.md) - **Start here if you're new to 3D reconstruction!**
- [Background](#background)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Citation](#citation)

## 🎯 Background

### The Story Behind This Project

This project originated from the [Image Matching Challenge 2023](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/image-matching-challenge-2023) on Kaggle, where teams competed to build the best 3D reconstruction systems. The challenge: given a collection of photos, can you reconstruct the 3D scene and determine where each photo was taken?

### The Core Technologies

We combine three revolutionary approaches:

#### 1. LoFTR (Local Feature TRansformer) 
Think of LoFTR as having superhuman vision that can find corresponding points between images, even in challenging conditions:
- **What it does**: Finds pixel-level correspondences between images
- **How it works**: Uses transformer attention (like GPT) to understand global image context
- **When to use**: Textureless surfaces, repetitive patterns, difficult lighting

[TODO: image showing LoFTR matching on a textureless wall]

#### 2. SuperGlue
SuperGlue is like a master puzzle solver that connects feature points between images:
- **What it does**: Matches distinctive keypoints using graph neural networks
- **How it works**: Considers both appearance and spatial relationships
- **When to use**: Well-textured scenes, when speed is important

[TODO: image showing SuperGlue connecting keypoints between two images]

#### 3. COLMAP
COLMAP is the geometry engine that turns 2D matches into 3D models:
- **What it does**: Reconstructs 3D structure from matched features
- **How it works**: Solves complex geometric optimization problems
- **Why it's used**: Industry standard, extremely robust and accurate

### Real-World Applications

This technology powers:
- 📱 **AR/VR**: Creating 3D environments for virtual reality
- 🚗 **Autonomous Vehicles**: Understanding 3D surroundings from cameras
- 🏛️ **Cultural Heritage**: Preserving historical sites in 3D
- 🎮 **Gaming**: Creating 3D assets from photographs
- 🏗️ **Construction**: Monitoring building progress with drones

### Why Our Hybrid Approach?

Traditional methods fail when facing:
- ❌ **Textureless regions** (white walls, sky)
- ❌ **Repetitive patterns** (windows on a building)
- ❌ **Large viewpoint changes** (front vs side view)
- ❌ **Varying lighting** (day vs night)

Our solution adaptively combines multiple methods:
```python
# Pseudocode of our approach
if scene_has_many_images:
    use_superglue()  # Faster for large scenes
else:
    use_loftr() + use_superglue()  # More accurate for small scenes
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

[TODO: image showing the complete system architecture with data flow]

### How It All Works Together

Think of our pipeline as a three-stage process, like building a house:

1. **🔍 Foundation (Image Pair Selection)**: Decide which photos to compare
2. **🔗 Framework (Feature Matching)**: Find connections between photos
3. **🏠 Construction (3D Reconstruction)**: Build the 3D model

### Detailed Pipeline

#### Stage 1: Smart Image Pair Selection
Instead of comparing every image with every other image (which would be slow), we intelligently select pairs:

```python
# Example: 100 images = 4,950 possible pairs!
# We reduce this to ~500 most promising pairs

1. Extract "fingerprint" of each image using AI (EfficientNet)
2. Compare fingerprints to find similar images
3. Select pairs that are:
   - Similar enough (likely overlap)
   - Different enough (good 3D baseline)
```

[TODO: image showing image similarity matrix and selected pairs]

#### Stage 2: Feature Matching Pipeline
This is where the magic happens - finding corresponding points between images:

```python
# Our adaptive strategy
if number_of_pairs > 400:
    # Large scene: prioritize speed
    matches = SuperGlue(max_keypoints=8000)
else:
    # Small scene: prioritize accuracy
    matches = LoFTR() + SuperGlue()
```

**Multi-Scale Matching**: We process images at different sizes:
- 🔍 Small (640px): Fast initial matching
- 🔎 Medium (1024px): Balanced speed/accuracy  
- 🔬 Large (1440px): Maximum accuracy

**Test-Time Augmentation (TTA)**: Like taking multiple measurements for accuracy:
- Original image
- Horizontally flipped
- Rotated variants

#### Stage 3: 3D Reconstruction with COLMAP
COLMAP converts 2D matches into 3D structure:

```
1. Initialize: Start with two images
2. Incremental growth:
   while more_images_available:
       - Find best next image
       - Estimate its camera position
       - Add new 3D points
       - Optimize everything (Bundle Adjustment)
```

[TODO: image showing incremental reconstruction steps]

### System Architecture

```
vision3d/
├── 📁 core/                    # Core pipeline components
│   ├── pipeline.py            # Main orchestrator - coordinates everything
│   ├── reconstruction.py      # 3D reconstruction engine
│   └── feature_extraction.py  # Feature detection and description
│
├── 📁 models/                  # Deep learning models
│   ├── loftr.py              # LoFTR: transformer-based dense matching
│   ├── superglue.py          # SuperGlue: GNN-based sparse matching
│   └── base.py               # Common interface for all matchers
│
├── 📁 utils/                   # Helper utilities
│   ├── image_pairs.py        # Smart pair selection algorithms
│   ├── colmap_interface.py   # COLMAP database management
│   └── visualization.py      # 3D visualization tools
│
└── 📁 examples/               # Learn by example!
    ├── basic_reconstruction.py
    ├── advanced_matching.py
    └── tutorial.ipynb
```

### Data Flow

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Input Images] --> B[Global Descriptors]
    B --> C[Pair Selection]
    C --> D{Matcher Selection}
    D -->|Many images| E[SuperGlue]
    D -->|Few images| F[LoFTR + SuperGlue]
    E --> G[Feature Matches]
    F --> G
    G --> H[COLMAP]
    H --> I[3D Model]
```

### Key Design Principles

1. **Modularity**: Each component can be used independently
2. **Adaptivity**: Automatically chooses best method for your data
3. **Robustness**: Handles failures gracefully
4. **Scalability**: Works on 10 images or 10,000 images
5. **Reproducibility**: Deterministic results with fixed seeds

## 💻 Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- CUDA 10.2+ (for GPU support)
- COLMAP 3.7+

### Step 1: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/vision3d.git
cd vision3d
```

### Step 2: Create Environment

```bash
# Using conda (recommended)
conda create -n vision3d python=3.8
conda activate vision3d

# Or using venv
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

### Step 3: Install Dependencies

```bash
# Install PyTorch (adjust for your CUDA version)
pip install torch==1.10.0+cu113 torchvision==0.11.0+cu113 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html

# Install other dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install COLMAP
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt-get install colmap

# macOS
brew install colmap
```

### Step 4: Download Model Weights

```bash
# Download pretrained weights
python scripts/download_weights.py
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```python
from vision3d import Vision3DPipeline

# Initialize pipeline
pipeline = Vision3DPipeline(matcher_type='hybrid')

# List of image paths
images = ['img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg', 'img3.jpg']

# Run reconstruction
reconstruction = pipeline.reconstruct(images)

# Export results
pipeline.export_results(reconstruction, 'output/')
```

### Command Line Interface

```bash
# Basic reconstruction
python -m vision3d.reconstruct --images ./images --output ./output

# With custom settings
python -m vision3d.reconstruct \
    --images ./images \
    --output ./output \
    --matcher loftr \
    --max-image-size 1024 \
    --min-matches 15
```

## 🔬 Advanced Usage

### Custom Configuration

```python
config = {
    'image_resize': 1440,
    'pair_selection': {
        'min_pairs': 30,
        'similarity_threshold': 0.5
    },
    'matching': {
        'confidence_threshold': 0.3,
        'use_tta': True,
        'tta_variants': ['orig', 'flip_lr', 'rot_90']
    }
}

pipeline = Vision3DPipeline(config=config)
```

### Using Specific Matchers

```python
from vision3d.models import LoFTRMatcher, SuperGlueMatcher

# LoFTR for challenging indoor scenes
loftr = LoFTRMatcher(device='cuda', pretrained='indoor')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = loftr.match_pair('img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg')

# SuperGlue for outdoor scenes with more keypoints
superglue = SuperGlueMatcher(device='cuda', weights='outdoor')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = superglue.match_with_high_resolution(
    'img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg', max_keypoints=8192
)
```

### Multi-Scale Matching

```python
# Match at multiple scales for better coverage
matcher = LoFTRMatcher(device='cuda')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = matcher.match_multi_scale(
    'img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg',
    scales=[640, 1024, 1440]
)
```

### Visualization

```python
from vision3d.utils.visualization import visualize_matches, visualize_reconstruction

# Visualize matches
visualize_matches(img1, img2, kpts1, kpts2, 'matches.png')

# Visualize 3D reconstruction
visualize_reconstruction(reconstruction, 'reconstruction.html')
```

## 📊 Performance

### Benchmarks

[An image showing performance comparison chart]

| Method | Precision | Recall | F1-Score | Speed (img/s) |
|--------|-----------|---------|----------|---------------|
| LoFTR | 0.89 | 0.85 | 0.87 | 2.5 |
| SuperGlue | 0.92 | 0.81 | 0.86 | 4.2 |
| **Hybrid (Ours)** | **0.93** | **0.88** | **0.90** | **3.8** |

### Hardware Requirements

- **Minimum**: 8GB RAM, GTX 1060 (6GB VRAM)
- **Recommended**: 16GB RAM, RTX 3070 (8GB VRAM)
- **Optimal**: 32GB RAM, RTX 3090 (24GB VRAM)

### Optimization Tips

1. **Batch Processing**: Process multiple image pairs simultaneously
2. **Resolution Selection**: Use adaptive resolution based on image content
3. **GPU Memory**: Monitor and adjust batch sizes to prevent OOM errors

## 📖 API Reference

### Vision3DPipeline

Main pipeline class for 3D reconstruction.

```python
class Vision3DPipeline:
    def __init__(self, matcher_type='hybrid', device=None, config=None):
        """Initialize the pipeline."""
        
    def reconstruct(self, image_paths, output_dir=None, verbose=True):
        """Perform 3D reconstruction."""
        
    def export_results(self, reconstruction, output_path, formats=['ply', 'json']):
        """Export reconstruction results."""
```

### Matchers

Base interface for all matchers:

```python
class BaseMatcher:
    def match_pair(self, image1_path, image2_path, **kwargs):
        """Match features between two images."""
        
    def match_pairs(self, image_paths, pairs, output_dir, verbose=True):
        """Match features for multiple image pairs."""
```

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CUDA Out of Memory**
   ```python
   # Reduce image size or batch size
   config = {'image_resize': 800, 'batch_size': 1}
   ```

2. **Poor Reconstruction Quality**
   - Ensure sufficient image overlap (>60%)
   - Check image quality and lighting
   - Try different matcher configurations

3. **COLMAP Errors**
   - Verify COLMAP installation: `colmap -h`
   - Check database permissions
   - Ensure image paths are correct

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest tests/

# Code formatting
black vision3d/
isort vision3d/

# Type checking
mypy vision3d/
```

## 📚 Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@software{vision3d2024,
  author = {Nesterov, Andrej},
  title = {Vision3D: State-of-the-Art 3D Reconstruction from Images},
  year = {2024},
  url = {https://github.com/yourusername/vision3d}
}
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [LoFTR](https://github.com/zju3dv/LoFTR) team for the excellent dense matching method
- [SuperGlue](https://github.com/magicleap/SuperGluePretrainedNetwork) team for sparse matching
- [COLMAP](https://colmap.github.io/) for the robust SfM pipeline
- Kaggle community for valuable feedback and ideas

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Computer Vision community**

Commit message:

Update .gitignore and enhance README for Vision3D
- Added 'cache/' and 'test.py' to .gitignore to exclude temporary files.
- Revised README.md to present Vision3D as a one-step solution for 3D scene reconstruction, emphasizing ease of use and integration of deep learning with classical computer vision.
- Included a code snippet demonstrating the usage of Vision3DPipeline for 3D reconstruction from images.

README.md, after:

# Vision3D: State-of-the-Art 3D Reconstruction from Images

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![PyTorch](https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-1.10+-ee4c2c.svg)](https://pytorch.org/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

## 🚀 Overview

Vision3D is a production-ready, one-step solution for 3D scene reconstruction from photographs. Provide a folder of images, execute a single command, and obtain a high-quality 3D model. The library seamlessly integrates state-of-the-art deep learning with classical computer vision, abstracting away complexity while remaining fully configurable for power users.

```python
from vision3d import Vision3DPipeline

pipeline = Vision3DPipeline()

reconstruction = pipeline.reconstruct(
    "path/to/your/images",     # Folder containing .jpg / .png photos
    output_dir="output"        # Where to save the 3D model & reports
)
```

[TODO: image displaying the transformation from multiple 2D photos to a 3D model]

**Key Features:**
- 🚀 **One-Step Reconstruction**: Generate a 3D model from raw images with a single Python or CLI command
- 🔥 **Hybrid Matching**: Intelligently combines LoFTR (dense) and SuperGlue (sparse) matching
- 🎯 **Smart Image Pairing**: Efficiently selects which images to match using AI
- 🔧 **Production Ready**: Professional code structure with error handling and logging
- 📊 **Performance Optimized**: GPU acceleration, multi-scale processing, and smart caching
- 🛠️ **Easy to Understand**: Extensive documentation and comments for learning

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Theory and Fundamentals](THEORY.md) - **Start here if you're new to 3D reconstruction!**
- [Background](#background)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
- [Performance](#performance)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Citation](#citation)

## 🎯 Background

### The Story Behind This Project

This project originated from the [Image Matching Challenge 2023](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/image-matching-challenge-2023) on Kaggle, where teams competed to build the best 3D reconstruction systems. The challenge: given a collection of photos, can you reconstruct the 3D scene and determine where each photo was taken?

### The Core Technologies

We combine three revolutionary approaches:

#### 1. LoFTR (Local Feature TRansformer) 
Think of LoFTR as having superhuman vision that can find corresponding points between images, even in challenging conditions:
- **What it does**: Finds pixel-level correspondences between images
- **How it works**: Uses transformer attention (like GPT) to understand global image context
- **When to use**: Textureless surfaces, repetitive patterns, difficult lighting

[TODO: image showing LoFTR matching on a textureless wall]

#### 2. SuperGlue
SuperGlue is like a master puzzle solver that connects feature points between images:
- **What it does**: Matches distinctive keypoints using graph neural networks
- **How it works**: Considers both appearance and spatial relationships
- **When to use**: Well-textured scenes, when speed is important

[TODO: image showing SuperGlue connecting keypoints between two images]

#### 3. COLMAP
COLMAP is the geometry engine that turns 2D matches into 3D models:
- **What it does**: Reconstructs 3D structure from matched features
- **How it works**: Solves complex geometric optimization problems
- **Why it's used**: Industry standard, extremely robust and accurate

### Real-World Applications

This technology powers:
- 📱 **AR/VR**: Creating 3D environments for virtual reality
- 🚗 **Autonomous Vehicles**: Understanding 3D surroundings from cameras
- 🏛️ **Cultural Heritage**: Preserving historical sites in 3D
- 🎮 **Gaming**: Creating 3D assets from photographs
- 🏗️ **Construction**: Monitoring building progress with drones

### Why Our Hybrid Approach?

Traditional methods fail when facing:
- ❌ **Textureless regions** (white walls, sky)
- ❌ **Repetitive patterns** (windows on a building)
- ❌ **Large viewpoint changes** (front vs side view)
- ❌ **Varying lighting** (day vs night)

Our solution adaptively combines multiple methods:
```python
# Pseudocode of our approach
if scene_has_many_images:
    use_superglue()  # Faster for large scenes
else:
    use_loftr() + use_superglue()  # More accurate for small scenes
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

[TODO: image showing the complete system architecture with data flow]

### How It All Works Together

Think of our pipeline as a three-stage process, like building a house:

1. **🔍 Foundation (Image Pair Selection)**: Decide which photos to compare
2. **🔗 Framework (Feature Matching)**: Find connections between photos
3. **🏠 Construction (3D Reconstruction)**: Build the 3D model

### Detailed Pipeline

#### Stage 1: Smart Image Pair Selection
Instead of comparing every image with every other image (which would be slow), we intelligently select pairs:

```python
# Example: 100 images = 4,950 possible pairs!
# We reduce this to ~500 most promising pairs

1. Extract "fingerprint" of each image using AI (EfficientNet)
2. Compare fingerprints to find similar images
3. Select pairs that are:
   - Similar enough (likely overlap)
   - Different enough (good 3D baseline)
```

[TODO: image showing image similarity matrix and selected pairs]

#### Stage 2: Feature Matching Pipeline
This is where the magic happens - finding corresponding points between images:

```python
# Our adaptive strategy
if number_of_pairs > 400:
    # Large scene: prioritize speed
    matches = SuperGlue(max_keypoints=8000)
else:
    # Small scene: prioritize accuracy
    matches = LoFTR() + SuperGlue()
```

**Multi-Scale Matching**: We process images at different sizes:
- 🔍 Small (640px): Fast initial matching
- 🔎 Medium (1024px): Balanced speed/accuracy  
- 🔬 Large (1440px): Maximum accuracy

**Test-Time Augmentation (TTA)**: Like taking multiple measurements for accuracy:
- Original image
- Horizontally flipped
- Rotated variants

#### Stage 3: 3D Reconstruction with COLMAP
COLMAP converts 2D matches into 3D structure:

```
1. Initialize: Start with two images
2. Incremental growth:
   while more_images_available:
       - Find best next image
       - Estimate its camera position
       - Add new 3D points
       - Optimize everything (Bundle Adjustment)
```

[TODO: image showing incremental reconstruction steps]

### System Architecture

```
vision3d/
├── 📁 core/                    # Core pipeline components
│   ├── pipeline.py            # Main orchestrator - coordinates everything
│   ├── reconstruction.py      # 3D reconstruction engine
│   └── feature_extraction.py  # Feature detection and description
│
├── 📁 models/                  # Deep learning models
│   ├── loftr.py              # LoFTR: transformer-based dense matching
│   ├── superglue.py          # SuperGlue: GNN-based sparse matching
│   └── base.py               # Common interface for all matchers
│
├── 📁 utils/                   # Helper utilities
│   ├── image_pairs.py        # Smart pair selection algorithms
│   ├── colmap_interface.py   # COLMAP database management
│   └── visualization.py      # 3D visualization tools
│
└── 📁 examples/               # Learn by example!
    ├── basic_reconstruction.py
    ├── advanced_matching.py
    └── tutorial.ipynb
```

### Data Flow

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Input Images] --> B[Global Descriptors]
    B --> C[Pair Selection]
    C --> D{Matcher Selection}
    D -->|Many images| E[SuperGlue]
    D -->|Few images| F[LoFTR + SuperGlue]
    E --> G[Feature Matches]
    F --> G
    G --> H[COLMAP]
    H --> I[3D Model]
```

### Key Design Principles

1. **Modularity**: Each component can be used independently
2. **Adaptivity**: Automatically chooses best method for your data
3. **Robustness**: Handles failures gracefully
4. **Scalability**: Works on 10 images or 10,000 images
5. **Reproducibility**: Deterministic results with fixed seeds

## 💻 Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- CUDA 10.2+ (for GPU support)
- COLMAP 3.7+

### Step 1: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/vision3d.git
cd vision3d
```

### Step 2: Create Environment

```bash
# Using conda (recommended)
conda create -n vision3d python=3.8
conda activate vision3d

# Or using venv
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

### Step 3: Install Dependencies

```bash
# Install PyTorch (adjust for your CUDA version)
pip install torch==1.10.0+cu113 torchvision==0.11.0+cu113 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html

# Install other dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install COLMAP
# Ubuntu/Debian
sudo apt-get install colmap

# macOS
brew install colmap
```

### Step 4: Download Model Weights

```bash
# Download pretrained weights
python scripts/download_weights.py
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```python
from vision3d import Vision3DPipeline

# Initialize pipeline
pipeline = Vision3DPipeline(matcher_type='hybrid')

# List of image paths
images = ['img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg', 'img3.jpg']

# Run reconstruction
reconstruction = pipeline.reconstruct(images)

# Export results
pipeline.export_results(reconstruction, 'output/')
```

### Command Line Interface

```bash
# Basic reconstruction
python -m vision3d.reconstruct --images ./images --output ./output

# With custom settings
python -m vision3d.reconstruct \
    --images ./images \
    --output ./output \
    --matcher loftr \
    --max-image-size 1024 \
    --min-matches 15
```

## 🔬 Advanced Usage

### Custom Configuration

```python
config = {
    'image_resize': 1440,
    'pair_selection': {
        'min_pairs': 30,
        'similarity_threshold': 0.5
    },
    'matching': {
        'confidence_threshold': 0.3,
        'use_tta': True,
        'tta_variants': ['orig', 'flip_lr', 'rot_90']
    }
}

pipeline = Vision3DPipeline(config=config)
```

### Using Specific Matchers

```python
from vision3d.models import LoFTRMatcher, SuperGlueMatcher

# LoFTR for challenging indoor scenes
loftr = LoFTRMatcher(device='cuda', pretrained='indoor')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = loftr.match_pair('img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg')

# SuperGlue for outdoor scenes with more keypoints
superglue = SuperGlueMatcher(device='cuda', weights='outdoor')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = superglue.match_with_high_resolution(
    'img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg', max_keypoints=8192
)
```

### Multi-Scale Matching

```python
# Match at multiple scales for better coverage
matcher = LoFTRMatcher(device='cuda')
kpts1, kpts2, conf = matcher.match_multi_scale(
    'img1.jpg', 'img2.jpg',
    scales=[640, 1024, 1440]
)
```

### Visualization

```python
from vision3d.utils.visualization import visualize_matches, visualize_reconstruction

# Visualize matches
visualize_matches(img1, img2, kpts1, kpts2, 'matches.png')

# Visualize 3D reconstruction
visualize_reconstruction(reconstruction, 'reconstruction.html')
```

## 📊 Performance

### Benchmarks

[An image showing performance comparison chart]

| Method | Precision | Recall | F1-Score | Speed (img/s) |
|--------|-----------|---------|----------|---------------|
| LoFTR | 0.89 | 0.85 | 0.87 | 2.5 |
| SuperGlue | 0.92 | 0.81 | 0.86 | 4.2 |
| **Hybrid (Ours)** | **0.93** | **0.88** | **0.90** | **3.8** |

### Hardware Requirements

- **Minimum**: 8GB RAM, GTX 1060 (6GB VRAM)
- **Recommended**: 16GB RAM, RTX 3070 (8GB VRAM)
- **Optimal**: 32GB RAM, RTX 3090 (24GB VRAM)

### Optimization Tips

1. **Batch Processing**: Process multiple image pairs simultaneously
2. **Resolution Selection**: Use adaptive resolution based on image content
3. **GPU Memory**: Monitor and adjust batch sizes to prevent OOM errors

## 📖 API Reference

### Vision3DPipeline

Main pipeline class for 3D reconstruction.

```python
class Vision3DPipeline:
    def __init__(self, matcher_type='hybrid', device=None, config=None):
        """Initialize the pipeline."""
        
    def reconstruct(self, image_paths, output_dir=None, verbose=True):
        """Perform 3D reconstruction."""
        
    def export_results(self, reconstruction, output_path, formats=['ply', 'json']):
        """Export reconstruction results."""
```

### Matchers

Base interface for all matchers:

```python
class BaseMatcher:
    def match_pair(self, image1_path, image2_path, **kwargs):
        """Match features between two images."""
        
    def match_pairs(self, image_paths, pairs, output_dir, verbose=True):
        """Match features for multiple image pairs."""
```

## 🛠️ Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **CUDA Out of Memory**
   ```python
   # Reduce image size or batch size
   config = {'image_resize': 800, 'batch_size': 1}
   ```

2. **Poor Reconstruction Quality**
   - Ensure sufficient image overlap (>60%)
   - Check image quality and lighting
   - Try different matcher configurations

3. **COLMAP Errors**
   - Verify COLMAP installation: `colmap -h`
   - Check database permissions
   - Ensure image paths are correct

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

```bash
# Install development dependencies
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

# Run tests
pytest tests/

# Code formatting
black vision3d/
isort vision3d/

# Type checking
mypy vision3d/
```

## 📚 Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@software{vision3d2024,
  author = {Nesterov, Andrej},
  title = {Vision3D: State-of-the-Art 3D Reconstruction from Images},
  year = {2024},
  url = {https://github.com/yourusername/vision3d}
}
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [LoFTR](https://github.com/zju3dv/LoFTR) team for the excellent dense matching method
- [SuperGlue](https://github.com/magicleap/SuperGluePretrainedNetwork) team for sparse matching
- [COLMAP](https://colmap.github.io/) for the robust SfM pipeline
- Kaggle community for valuable feedback and ideas

---

**Built with ❤️ for the Computer Vision community**
